The behaviour tree written by kiwicoder is an Ai structure equivalent to finite state machine, a method to perform our symbolic Ai logics in characters. However, much of the codes are written to bring this tree into an editor so that we can modify it directly using the editor like state machine for animator. Therefore, many codes are related to front-end part of work, designing the editor and linking the editor to the actual behaviour tree data.

The editor is built using the UI builder package from Unity, if Unity is older version than 2021.3, then we need to download it in the package manager with preview enable. In the UI builder, we can create new editor window, and automatically, we get a new C# script, a new UXML file, and a new USS file. The C# file controls the logic for the editor window, which is the BehaviourTreeEditor.cs. The UXML file is an Unity version of XML file, by Unity version, we mean Unity has added its own things on top of XML. XML file defines the structure of the editor or any front end element, the skeleton you may say. USS file is the Unity version of CSS file. CSS file defines the style or the look for elements defined in XML file. That's not to say without CSS, the XML would look ugly. The XML can define how its elements look. However, CSS works on top overriding the elements' looks if there is modification. Therefore, we can apply different CSS files to the same XML file to get totally different looks. But not just any CSS, in order to apply the look appropriately, the person who write the CSS file needs to know the structure of the XML file. Also, CSS can even provide runtime look change which seems to be not feasible for XML's own definition.

The UI builder allows us to modify the UXML and USS file in the builder editor in a visual way, and we need not to write any XML and CSS, which is good, because we only know how to write C#.