If a material is fully metallic, then it is not reacting to baked light. It only works with real time lighting. That's not entirely true because we can still force it to react by boosting up the intensity greatly. Like we normally work with an area light of intensity within 10, but to force metallic material to react, we might need to increast the intensity to 10, or 20, or 100. Although we can get away with this for performance since it is baked, this approach is quite unpractical. We rarly have only metallic materials in our scene, and as long as there is something not metallic under the influence of our high intensity baked light, it would get lit up way too strong, even only through indirect lighting. Yes, we might be able to pull it off if the intensity is 10 or something. And one more thing to notice is if the non-metallic material has a base color closer to complete dark, it would has lesser reaction to baked light. Once it reaches complete dark, it stops reacting to baked light just like metallic material. With this info, we might come up with a trick where we adjust the base color to lower the sensitivity to baked lighting for nearby non-metallic material, which helps balancing the high intensity of our baked light. Still, not flexible and might not solve the problem. And for most of the time, we have to settle with a realtime or mixed spot light as the metallic material reacts to realtime lighting, and only realtime spot light would cast a shadow. Realtime directional light also can, but if given a scene without sun light, then spot light is the only option.

The metallic material alone has some information missing for rendering its color, resulting a black looking color. The underlying reasoning is metallic material uses reflection information to fill in a great portion of its color channel. Therefore, almost always we need to provid a reflection probe to help the metallic material to render. 

A reflection probe can use realtime and baked, but realtime reflection remains an expensive operation to run in 2022. By default, a reflection probe is in baked mode. When bake, it captures a cube map. A cube map is a six-sided image, where each side is a picture taken from the origin of the reflection probe towards a direction (up, down, forward, backward, right, left). After that, the reflection probe delivers such information based on the relative position between itself and the game object within bound. For the reflection probe to have influence, game objects need to be within its bound, which defines by its box size property. If a game object is at the right side of the box's center, then the game object would have reflection information of the right side image, and how the information gets translated into color channel is based on the game object's material. A couple of details to mention before going back to metallic material. By default, a reflection probe with global scope is in place reflecting the skybox. We can check that and turn it off in the lighting->environment->environment reflections. When multiple reflection probes have influences on the same game object, the game object would only use the one with greatest importantce property. If one game object is huge like the whole floor, it might not be able to correctly display the information since the cube map is just not big enough.

Now, the game object receives such cube map information from reflection probe, and the metallic material would take it to fill in its base color channel, while non-metallic material would take it to add on top of the base color channel, I guess. Therefore, when and where a reflection probe is baked makes a huge difference on the metallic material's looking because it just simply takes the cube map to fill in its color. For example, a reflection probe is baked when light is on, then turn off the light, the metallic material would still have a look as if the surrounding is lit.

The conclusion is to use metallic material when we want to achieve mirror-like looking. Don't make it metallic just because it is considered to be built by metal.