An open CG that shows the background, the main quest, and our role. To set the tone of epic, the main quest needs to be huge, nearly impossible yet highly tight to the background. Possibly shows a couple of important characters on this epic stage.

Having an open CG like that, helps the player know who we are and what role we play in such an epic background, which gives the player a motivation to progress from the point of story telling.

Some games has the player start without knowing who they are and what to do. And those games have CG that only sets the tone of the background without giving too much information about the story. That is also okay. But if to choose this route, we need to make sure the player has enough motivation to progress without knowing who are are and what our role is. For example, an enemy that is strong, not just strong in combat, but also visually shocking. By encountering such an enemy in the beginning, the player feels danger, nervous, the need to run away. Another good example, is the environment. Good environment gives the player a good vibe, helping the player to immerse into the feel. Also, a good view point would show the grand view of the area we are about to explore. A eye-catching landmark that is visually impactful. One more example would be giving the player a choice to select some weapon or gear or job. By giving options to the player, player enters a stage of explore and compare those options, and experience them in combat. All these things are distraction as well as motivation for player to progress the game without knowing the story. Of course, the player will be fed with information or details of the story eventually. But that's how we can keep the player's interest to progress the game in the beginning without knowing what is going on.

But we not only need to design those incentives in the beginning, but also need to continuesly provide new incentives when the old ones begin to feel boring, such as new type of enemy, new environment, new vibe, new abilities for the player character, new story.