One approach of getting the base color output is to start with a noise pattern. With a gradient map node we remap the grey scale value to colors we pick. Specifically, select the gradient node, click the gradient editor and pick gradient by drawing in the reference picture. This approach would quickly give us a color variance close to our reference, which is better than just plain color without any changes. And the color variance is within a very close range and translates very subtly. Now we have a good base to start with. On top of that, we can add color info like pure color overlay or dirt or scratched color, etc. Of course, some of that info would require height info(a mask) to be appear at the desired location.

This approach is convenient as that color variance also works as a good base for the roughness output. All those scratches, dots, or other height info, can be added on top of that base.

In this approach, base color and roughness go hand in hand, as they share a similar start base, and many info later added on top of them are derived from the same height info. The logic behind this, would be color variance is raised by the change of the surface roughness. Maybe the surface is rubbed by something, or it is covered by something, and this changes the roughness of the surface, further changes how the color is shown. However, color variance can be there just because this is how the color is designed to be. A fresh brand new object can have variance of color without any change in roughness. In that case, the above logic doesn't stand.

These two outputs can be done without going hand in hand, and that is fine. They just use uniform color node to start with. And add variation on each road down to the output.