The RestartFromEndGame function raised by the "RESTART" button onClick event was not working before. The reason is that the RestartFromEndGame is a method under GameManager, and the GameManager is a singleton. Registering listeners for events in Unity Editor is somewhat different from doing it in a script. 

Listeners registered for events in Unity Editor is called persistent listeners. They are shown in the Editor, so they are very clear to track and performance optimal for the heavy work is done in the very beginning before the actual game play starts, do remember it means storing that info in the memory at the beginning. However, if something is instantiated during game play, you cannot really do registering beforehand. And if something is singleton, then the editor cannot access it correctly because Editor use prefab as guide to connect. Since singleton use accesser instead of directly accessing like any other regular public gameObject. 

Registering listeners in script means doing it in runtime. First of all, it is more performance cost because registering listeners means you will need a reference to the object and retrieving that info is quite costly. Secondly, it is not shown on the Unity Editor, making it difficult to track. But it have the ability to registering listeners for  runtime instantiated game objects, and it have no problem to accessing singleton class since we get to write the code. 

These two ways are not exactly excluded from each other. Unity provides a written class to manager persistent events through script, UnityEditor.Events.UnityEventTools. However, why you would need to register a persistent listener through script? Maybe the game object is instantiated during game play but will exist througout the life of the game like a menu? But in that case, you would just need a non persistent events raised with a script directly attached to that game object, right? Still cannot figure out. For now, try use script to register listeners to avoid pitfall, and only use persistent events when you know there is no possible errors. 

Now, there is another way of using events, the animation event. It is by far the most difficult to track because neither there is any reference in the script nor it is shown in a traditional event window in inspector. Instead, you need to go to the animation window, select the right animation clip to find the events in inspector. We directly set the callback function name in the inspector, and without the gameObject assigned, this callback function would automatically be considered to locate in one of the scripts attached to the gameObject that this animation clip is attached to. After giving the function a name, we need to go into one of the attached scripts to actually implement the function.