HashSet is another data structure under System.Collections.Generics. HashSet cares about what is stored because it doesn't store the same thing twice. Its Add() method would return true if a item is added successfully, and false otherwise. When we add two value type variables having the same value, HashSet would not add the second one. The same goes with reference variables, but sometimes we get confused about how two reference variables to be considered the same. For reference variables, we are still working with objects. When we add a reference variable into the HashSet, we are adding the object. If two reference variables are pointing to the same object, then HashSet would not add the second one. However, objects can have the same methods, the same fields, the same everything, and we might expect the HashSet to prevent the adding, but underlying they are two independent objects, so it won't. This is an easy pitfall we need to be aware of.

LinkedList is another data structure under System.Collections.Generics. Its feature is being able to insert things in an efficient manner. In a regular list, inserting things is not efficient because we need to copy things around to change their corresponding indices. On the other hand, the slot in LinkedList is actually a generics class itself, and it can store whatever value, while having a coupld of pointers pointing to the previous and next slots. This structure makes it easy to insert things, because all we need is to change the pointer. But LinkedList is not enumerable, if we try to retrieve the 10th item, then we need to start from the beginning or from the end, iterate through pointers to get there.

Dictionary is another data structure under System.Generics. Its feature is to store two values in one slot, one for key, and the other for the actual value. So basically, each slot has a key-value pair. Value can be the same, but key cannot. A example would be two workers having the same name have different worker IDs. The dictionary is perfectly suitable for situations like this.

Those data structures above have no sorting functionality. However, in System.Collections.Generics, there are sorted version of list and dictionary, which provide sorting capability based on basic value type.

For multi-thread programming, we need collections that are thread safe, meaning they allow multiple writers and readers without corrupting the data. There are two namespaces or packages offering collections like that. One is System.Collections.Concurrent. The other is Microsoft.Bcl.Immutable on NuGet. 

