Adding one more camera to switch when the character is aiming requires following steps: add one more cinemachine camera, set the camera with desired parameters, use the cinemachineBrain component to control the switching. In the cinemachineBrain component, we have a setting called default blend which defines how this camera switching goes (smoothly or sharply). Cameras use a system called priority to decide which one is active. Each camera has a priority value, and the one with heightest value is active. We can set this value with script in order to change camera during game play. But remember, this system only works when cinemachine cameras and the actual camera with cinemachineBrain component are on the same layer of hierachy, which means if one of them is nested one layer beneath (child of another game object), they all should do the same. To avoid bugs and pitfall, we should keep all of them as individual game objects. 

Although the third-person camera style and the aiming camera style are kind of similar, we would still need two sets of movement controls. In the aiming mode, character should always facing the direction that we aim (like a first person style), otherwise, when projectile is fired, the character might face a different direction, making no sense. We try to use a finite state machine to solve this issue. 

So far, there are three states implemented: idleState, aimingState, and jumpingState. In aiming state, the character would always face the direction where the camera is facing. Moreover, its moving speed is refering the walk speed and has the walking animation applied. Jumping uses addforce method with a Vector3 input made of an upward input and a directional input. When the character falls back down and hits a collider, it would transit back to idleState.