When prototyping in Unity, we know which mesh needs modification. We go back to maya to change the mesh, but also need to update the blockout in maya, because we might need to create new mesh based on the prototype and if our blockout in maya is way off, then we would have difficulties to create a mesh with proper size and shape for it. Sometimes, if a mesh is only a little bit off, we could just scale it in Unity without modifying it in maya. Scaling would scale the texture as well, so beware if it is noticeable. 

Meshes in Unity should not be clipping into each other, for the texture of both meshes would take turn to show up causing a flash. That's another important reason to use modular arts for the size and scale is properly managed to not have clipping. However, sometimes it still happens. If it is small enough to be unnoticed, it is fine. If it is noticeable, we could either scale the mesh a little bit so their surfaces are not on the same plane, or we could use edge decals or game props to cover them.   

Meshes with polygons that are not going to be seen like the back of a wall should be deleted to reduce polygon counts. Also there are object counts to be aware. Inside the update function, a draw call is fired for each one of the meshes, so too many meshes are bad for performance. In later stage when the final scene is set, we should create larger meshes that are made of multiple small meshes and replace them in the scene to lower the object counts. 

When meshes in Unity need to have two sets of textures for different parts of the mesh, we can add the array size of materials in the mesh renderer component. But Unity have no clues to assign which material to what part of the mesh, so the default settting is to assign one of the material to the whole mesh even there is more than one materials. To define that, we need to assign two materials to the parts we wish to be different in maya. Then Unity would automatically assign one material to one part of the mesh. Most of the time, we should always assign just one material to one mesh for optimal purpose. The reason we have multiple sets of texture for one mesh is either we are going to change the whole mesh texture in the middle of the game play, or we need extra resolution for certain parts of the mesh. We can assign more texture space in for certain part to avoid the second scenario.