We cannot directly swap the blockout mesh with the final mesh. When mesh is bought into Unity, it automatically becomes a mesh prefab, but it is different from a regular prefab. We still need to turn it into a regular prefab by dragging the mesh prefab into scene and then draggin the object from the hierachy back into project window. Only with a regular prefab, the changing properties would be updated throughout all the instances in the scene. A mesh prefab would not do that. A workflow to swap the mesh is export final mesh in modeling software, import new asset in Unity project window, open the related prefab and change the mesh to the newly imported mesh. 

When building exporting final mesh in maya, remember to set the pivot at the same location as the blockout mesh. It should be easy for they have the same height*length*deepth, and we normally use (0, 0, 0) world space as the pivot point. Even with bevelled corner, we can still snap the pivot to the grid to match. Therefore mesh before exported should sit around the (0, 0, 0) location, preferably with its corner snapping to (0, 0, 0). And yes, freeze transformation in the end, because mesh brought in Unity would have the rotation value reset to zero. Like in maya, a mesh has rotation 180 on y-axis, when it is in Unity, its rotation is reset to zero, resulting an opposite facing mesh. But if you have zero rotation in maya like what you would do after freeze transformation, when the mesh is brought into Unity, it would have no facing problem. With that being said, the residual value on translation doesn't seem to have any effect. But since we snap the mesh to the (0, 0, 0), and have transformation reset, we should be able to take care of any underlying effect. 

With this technique, replacing the final mesh would not cause any rotation or position issues. We can use prefab window to see if the pivot is set to be the same. 

When prototyping in Unity, we know which mesh needs modification. We go back to maya to change the mesh, but also need to update the blockout in maya, because we might need to create new mesh based on the prototype and if our blockout in maya is way off, then we would have difficulties to create a mesh with proper size and shape for it. Sometimes, if a mesh is only a little bit off, we could just scale it in Unity without modifying it in maya. Scaling would scale the texture as well, so beware if it is noticeable. 

Meshes in Unity should not be clipping into each other, for the texture of both meshes would take turn to show up causing a flash, which is called z-fighting because it happens to decal on the ground often. One way to avoid this is to put the decal up a little bit in maya, then set its pivot back to the ground. In that wat, we can use the ground pivot (y = 0) in Unity, but without causing any z-fighting. That's another important reason to use modular arts for the size and scale is properly managed to not have clipping. However, sometimes it still happens. If it is small enough to be unnoticed, it is fine. If it is noticeable, we could either scale the mesh a little bit so their surfaces are not on the same plane, or we could use edge decals or game props to cover them. Try not to place decal mesh on top of the area where modular pieces meet, as this would make Unity struggle to bake the lighting correctly. 

Normal map brought into Unity should be marked as normal map in texture type. Otherwise, PBR shader would not use it correctly. 

Meshes with polygons that are not going to be seen like the back of a wall should be deleted to reduce polygon counts. Also there are object counts to be aware. Inside the update function, a draw call is fired for each one of the meshes, so too many meshes are bad for performance. In later stage when the final scene is set, we should create larger meshes that are made of multiple small meshes and replace them in the scene to lower the object counts. 

Way of placing a selected camera to be just the same like the scene view camera.
1-While selecting your camera within the hierarchy, press ctrl + shift + f button;
2-While having your main camera selected, navigate to the applications main menu: GameObject > Align With View;
